# DEOCSU
DEOCSU(**DE**ep-learning **O**ptimized **C**hIP-exo peak calling **SU**ite) is an deep-learning based ChIP-exo peak calling tool based on deep convolutional neural network model. The tool is named after the lab mascot pet DEOCSU[dəksu:] whose main staff is Seojoung Park in SBML-Kim lab.
#

Recognizing binding sites of DNA-binding proteins is a key factor for elucidating transcriptional regulation in organisms. ChIP-exo enables researchers to delineate genome-wide binding landscapes of DNA-binding proteins with near single base-pair resolution. However, the peak calling step hinders ChIP-exo application since the published algorithms tend to generate false-positive and false-negative predictions. Here, we report the development of DEOCSU (DEep-learning Optimized ChIP-exo peak calling SUite), a novel machine learning-based ChIP-exo peak-calling suite. DEOCSU entails the deep convolutional neural network model which was trained with curated ChIP-exo peak data to distinguish the visualized data of bona fide peaks from false ones. Performance validation of the trained deep-learning model indicated its high accuracy, high precision, and high recall of over 95%. Applying the new suite to both in-house and publicly available ChIP-exo datasets obtained from bacteria, eukaryotes, and archaea revealed an accurate prediction of peaks containing canonical motifs, highlighting the versatility and efficiency of DEOCSU. Furthermore, DEOCSU can be executed on a cloud computing platform or the local environment. With visualization software included in the suite, adjustable options such as the threshold of peak probability, and iterable updating of the pre-trained model, DEOCSU can be optimized for users’ specific needs.
